**Name**: Toan Phung

**Email**: toan.phung@pm.me

**Github Repository** : https://github.com/noatgnu

### **Professional Summary**

Highly skilled Proteomics Data Scientist and Research Software Engineer with extensive experience in proteoinformatics data analysis, and software development. Proficient in Python, R, Golang and various bioinformatics tools and libraries. Adept at developing, integrating, and maintaining robust data analysis pipelines and software solutions for proteomics research and data management.

---

### **Technical Skills**

- **Programming Languages:** Python, R, Golang, SQL, JavaScript

- **Bioinformatics Tools:** rpy2, pandas, scipy, scikit-learn, statsmodels, limma, DIA-NN, Spectronaut

- **Software Development:** Git, Docker, CI/CD, Poetry, Angular, Django, Tornado, PostgreSQL

- **Data Analysis/Data Management:**  utilization of data imputation, normalization, batch correction, statistical analysis, data visualization, usage of relational database (RDB) for storing and managing structured data output, usage of standard method for version control of analytic pipelines, understanding of conventional data backup practice, understanding method for data integrity verification

- **Proteomics:** Mass spectrometry (MS) data analysis, protein quantification, differential expression analysis, total and post-translational modification (PTM) (phospho and glycosylation) data analysis.

- **Other Tools:** Jupyter, PyCharm, WebStorm, Golang

---

### **Professional Experience**

#### **Proteomics Data Scientist (PDS) and Research Software Engineer (RSE)**

**University of Dundee** - Dundee

**June, 2021 - Present**

- Developed and maintained data analysis pipelines for proteomics research by integrating Python and R together. (PDS, RSE)

- Conducted statistical analysis on large-scale proteomics datasets. (PDS)

- Create a persistent database to streamline access to different data outputs from the analysis. (PDS)

- Collaborated with cross-functional teams to integrate bioinformatics tools and software solutions. (PDS)

- Implemented batch correction and normalization techniques to improve data quality. (PDS)

- Published research findings in peer-reviewed journals and presented at scientific conferences. (PDS)

- Created CURTAIN and CURTAIN-PTM web-based tools for zero-installation needed proteomics and PTM MS-based data visualization, sharing and exploration. (RSE)

- Developed CINDER for indexing and data management of proteomics experiment metadata and data analysis result. (RSE)

- Developed an automated tool for running Mass Spectrometry Search on files generated by the instrument as the file is created. (PDS, RSE)


---

### **Education**

#### **Ph.D. in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology**

**University of Queensland** - Australia

**April, 2017 - October, 2021**



#### **Master of Molecular Biology**

**University of Queensland** - Australia

**September, 2014 - May, 2016**

---


### **Publications**

- [Title of Publication 1], [Journal Name], [Year]

- [Title of Publication 2], [Journal Name], [Year]
